ADPS - Active Directory Password Reset Script

Purpose:
This script was written to be a better solution for Helpdesk personnel to look up users and reset their passwords than the Active Directory Administrative Center tool provided by Windows.
It's main advantage lies in quicker access to relevant user information, and single-window, mostly keyboard-driven operation.

To illustrate this, consider a workflow with the Windows ADAC tool. The operator searches for the user to reset, double-clicks a result, then has to scroll down, click a tab, then scroll again through a long list of irrelevant data to get the date of the last password reset, ID number, DOB, alternate email, etc.

In the ADPS script, the search results immediately display these key data points in table form, providing the operator with the information they need at a glance without a laborious GUI in their way.




Usage:
Login with your domain admin account. Double-click start.bat to run.

Enter a search query of two or more letters to search for users. 
Tip: You can double-click a username or email to copy it to the clipboard. Right-click anywhere to paste.

Enter 'r' to enter Password Reset mode.
Enter 'u' to unlock an account.
Enter 'd' to get details on an account.
Enter 'l' to see log entries.
Enter 'c' to clear the screen.
Enter 'e' to exit the script.
Enter 'h' to see help.




Requirements:
This script requires Windows ActiveDirectory components to be installed. 
In Windows 10 1809 or later you can run 'n' within the script to install them.

You can use this PowerShell command to uninstall them:
Get-WindowsCapability -Online | Where-Object {$_.Name -like 'Rsat.ActiveDirectory*'} | Remove-WindowsCapability -Online





History:
1.2 (3/8/21) - Added title to description column. Merged Lock status column into pwStatus, saving screen space. Renamed pwStatus to pwState. Some cosmetic fixes.

1.1 (2/2/21) - Added function to install AD components. Main search results are now fully highlighted. Minor cosmetic changes. Window title added. Error logging now controlled by a variable. Logfile renamed.

1.0 (11/9/20) - First release. AD search, password reset, unlock, other minor functions.
Search results use dark grey to highlight expired passwords and Deprovisioned accounts.

